okay we'll now speak to Muhammad Mas
who's a professor of media studies at
the Doha Institute for Graduate Studies
joining us here uh in Doha thanks uh
again for your time so if we just uh go
back to the announcement that was made
by the World Health Organization saying
that Israel has agreed to area specific
pauses and fighting in Gaza to allow a
polio vaccination campaign uh to be
carried out I mean we hear from eight
agencies as well that the constant
evacuation orders make planning
extremely difficult we just saw Han's
report where entire neighborhoods are
reduced to Rubble how difficult
or how challenging is this campaign
going to be it's going to be incredibly
uh difficult um people are terrified not
just uh you know gazen uh civilians but
also also Aid workers we have to
remember that um Israel has killed
approximately 200 un staff they've also
killed uh about 150 uh journalists uh
these are both world record uh figures
um you know there was the tragedy um a
few months back I believe it was on
April 1st when the world uh world
Central Kitchen uh Aid workers were
killed targeted by Israel clearly marked
uh van they had shared their coordinates
with with Israel and then just yesterday
as you all were reporting uh this world
food program uh van clearly marked also
had shared its coordinates with the
Israeli army they were targeted um so
Aid workers are also um very uh scared
and that's why uh the who was adamant
that if they were going to be able to uh
carry out this vaccination program a
pause in the fighting was going to be
absolutely necessary but do the people
the Palestinians in Gaza trust that the
Israelis will actually adhere to this to
these area specific pauses and fighting
as being outlined because we've seen
over and over throughout the 11 months
of war is that when Palestinians are
told to go to Safe so-called designated
safe areas they're then subsequently
bombed right and to your point uh
forensic architecture which is an
independent research um organization
they did a study in July showing that
right after Israel had declared a
particular area to be a safe zone They
proceeded to bomb it at least 10 times
in about 3 weeks so and that has
happened repeatedly uh over the past 11
months right um Israel uh tells people
to go from point A to point B and then
they they bomb uh they bomb point point
B uh and so people are are scared and
this is why many Palestinians have still
refused uh to evacuate there are still
some Palestinians who are who are
refusing to um not follow some of these
evacuation orders and that's one reason
why because they say there is no safe
place to begin with and many will say
look it is a ceasefire that is needed
right now if you want to ensure public
health safety it is a ceasefire that's
needed where are we now do you think
when it comes to a ceasefire and if you
look at sort of the bigger picture and
look at what's happening across the
other Palestinian territory of course in
the occupied West Bank where the raids
are ongoing by by the Israeli military I
mean where do you think things head to
next yeah I I think you know Israel
tells us things very clearly and very
explicitly but sometimes for some reason
we don't want to believe them uh they've
told us for months that they have no
intention of stopping uh of stopping
this war um I could if there was time I
could call up a long list of of
statements from Netanyahu and other top
officials so Israel has no intention of
stopping unfortunately I wish I could
tell you something something different
and I don't think they're going to stop
this War uh on Gaza uh until the United
States uh and I don't like to use the
phrase the International Community
because really there's only one entity
that's capable of exerting uh the
appropriate pressure on Israel and that
is the United States which is I mean how
do you evaluate what the United States
is is sort of it's positioning right now
because we hear optimistic comments
coming out of us officials particularly
when it comes to any ceasefire talks
well this is what the US has to say the
US has to present itself as a peacemaker
and and and show it's public that it's
doing everything that it can but in
reality the US is putting its full
backing behind Israel if they wanted a
ceasefire they could have forc the
ceasefire many many months ago so I
think we're going to be unfortunately
headed for more War uh and more
instability and violence and aggression
even in the West Bank unless the United
States applies uh the pressure that it
can exert on Israel if it wants to okay
Muhammad M thank you so
much make sure to subscribe to to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer